# Team Visionary

## Introduction
Surveillance is an integral part of security and control. The job requires extended periods of looking into multiple video footages for an undesirable incident or evidence following the incident, which proves to be highly inefficient considering the massive amount of footages. This manual task provides evidence in court but is rarely used to prevent crime or react to it in real-time. In this paper, we aim to develop a real-time crime detection technology that can be integrated with any security system, to ensure public safety through visual crowd surveillance. The system will detect and simultaneously alert any violent activity captured by the camera. The technologies encompasses domains of Computer Vision and Deep Learning models like CNN, R-CNN, LSTM. The dataset collected consists of 120 videos of violent and non-nonviolent activities being scrapped from the internet. The model uses the technique of Multiple Object Detection with Localization tracking the movement of people and then categorizing it into violent or non-violent behavior. Our proposed solution will ensure Public Safety and security without any human toil with an instant alert to the concerned authorities. Through crowd monitoring and Behavioral Analysis our solution aims to evoke the sense of security in men and women. The constant rise of criminal activities, their unexpectedness, and scope of harm that can be inflicted can be exponentially reduced through our proposed system of Automatic Violence Detection. 

